Hello, on this section I want to point out
a problem with generative models such as
Naive Bayse models which is how they can
overcount evidence when it's correlated
and at least hint at how Maxent
models can solve this problem.
I'm going to use this example, so in this
example here's our training data and
in our training data we
have eight documents.
And so four of those documents
are about Europe, and
four of those documents
are in the class Asia.
And we're wanting to do a two
class classification problem
between documents about Europe and Asia.
Now to keep this example small,
I'm building a text classifier
with a very tiny vocabulary.
You can always truncate the vocabulary
used in Naive Bayse text classifier and
people often do to make
the models smaller, more compact.
And in this example I've done
that to an extreme extent and so
I only have three words
left in my vocabulary.
And so in the documents we're just
looking at instances of those words so
in the first document there's
two instances of Monaco and
no instances of the other two words in
my vocabulary which are Hong and Kong.
Okay, so if we look at the overall
statistics, what are we starting to find?
So we've got four documents
from each class, and
they're eight documents in total.
So the prior probabilities of Asia and
Europe are half each.
If in total in Europe
there are eight words and
six of them on Monaco, so
the probability of a word being Monaco,
given that's in the Europe category
is three-quarters, six-eights.
Okay looking at the Asia category,
they're again eight words in our training
data and two of those are Monaco.
So the probability of a word being Monaco
in the Asia category is one-quarter.
Now let's suppose we've now
built our native base model and
we're going to classify a document.
So here's our picture of
the native base model and for
this particular document, the only word
from our vocabulary that appears in it
is Monaco that it appears once.
So what does our model predict?
So for the joint probability of Asia and
Monaco, we've got prior probability of
Asia that's a half, times the probability
of Monaco given Asia, which is a quarter.
Then the joint probability of Europe and
Monaco is the prior probability a half,
times three-quarters.
And so to work out the posterior
probabilities we're going to take each of
these terms over divided by the sum
of the two to normalize it.
And so what e have here is one-eights and
three-eights which is going
to give us one quarter.
And for Europe we're going to take
three-eighths over three-eighths
plus one-eighth,
which simplifies down to three-quarters.
So this isn't surprising,
this gives us exactly what we'd expect.
So what we saw in our training data
that Monaco appeared six times
over here and twice over here.
The two classes are equally likely.
So if you've got a document with just
the word Monaco appearing in it well, we'd
expect to say there's a three-quarters
chance it's a document about Europe.
That's a Naive Bayse
model working correctly.
But now let's look at another example.
In this example we have exactly
the same training data so
the probabilities of each class is a half.
But this time we're going to be working
with documents with Hong and Kong in them.
So the probability of a word being Hong,
given it's about Asia.
So that's three out of eight and
the probability of Kong being it's
about Asia is again three out of eight.
So that's three-eighths.
Then over here for Europe, there's one
instance each of Hong and Kong and
there are eight words in total so
we've got probabilities of one-eighth.
Okay, now let's again move to test time.
So here's how Naive Bayse model and our
document the way testing on as the words
Hong and Kong appearing ones each and
nothing else from our vocabulary.
Okay, so if we work out the same kinds of
probabilities as before, we get a half
times three-eighths times three-eighths.
And here we get a half times
one-eighth times one-eighth.
The denominators are always the same so
we can just look at the numerators for
working it out.
So this is proportional to nine and
this is proportional to one.
So then when we work these
posterior probabilities for
Asia, we get nine over nine
plus one equals nine-tenths and
for Europe we get one over nine
plus one equals one-tenths.
So look at what's happened,
the classifier's now giving 90%
probability that it's an Asia document
rather than just three quarters.
And intuitively that doesn't make sense
that the answers should be exactly
the same as from the document with just
Monaco, because look, Hong Kong appeared
once in the Europe document and
it occurred three times in Asia documents.
So the probability should
be three-quarters.
But why did that not happened?
Well, that didn't happened because
although I'm suggesting now that Hong Kong
is one word, the name of one place.
In our model, it's being treated as
two completely independent words that
have nothing to do with each other.
And so it counts the evidence
that each one separately and so
that's precisely where you're getting
these 3/8 times 3/8 and 1/8 times 1/8.
And that ends up with you having
this odd ratio of nine to
one in it's favor of Asia
where it is previously
when you had the document with just
Monaco you had a ratio of three to one.
So you start multiplying
in odds factor of three for
each repeatedly instance of the word.
So what's going on here is
that really we have one piece
of evidence Appearance of the word,
the place name Hong Kong.
But because it's two tokens we're treating
it as two separate pieces of evidence and
so we double count that evidence and
we falsely confident that
the document is about Asia.
Does that create problems for
classification?
It turns out it does,
let's look at one more example.
So in this example,
everything in the Naive Bayse
factors is just the same as before.
We have exactly the same training data
that we're building a model form.
But this time, at test time we've got
exactly the same Naive Bayse model but
our document of interest has Hong Kong,
Monaco one time each.
So what does that mean we get when we work
through our faith based model predictions?
So the joint probability, the Asia and
all the words is a half times
Hong given Asia three-eighths,
times three-eights for
Kong times one quarter for Monaco.
The probability of this joint
probability is a half times
one-eighth times one-eighth
times three-quarters.
Again, the denominators are the same and
can be ignored so
the posterior probability
of Asia is then going to
be three times three,
nine over 9+3 so
that's then three quarters.
And the posterior probability of Europe
is going to be 3/9+3 equals 1/4.
And so look at this what we've gotten
out is that there's a 75% chance that
this document here is an Asia document and
intuitively that doesn't make sense.
Informally in the training data there are
two documents that look just like this.
And one was about Europe and
one was about Asia.
But more precisely we have
these statistics that the word,
the place Monaco appears three quarters
of the time in Europe documents and
one quarter of the time here.
And the place Hong Kong occurs
three quarters of the time here,
and one quarter of the time about Europe.
So those two factors should just
completely cancel each other out and
we should say that this document
is equally likely to be
a document about Europe or Asia.
But again we don't get that affect
because the two tokens here
are wrongly being treated as
independent sources of evidence.
And so therefore,
we think we still have a three to one
odds ratio in favor of
the document being about Asia.
Okay, so what we've seen is that Naive
Bayes models will multi-count evidence
that when it treats evidence as
independent even when it's partly or
totally correlated with
other pieces evidence.
Each time you see a feature
it's being multiplied in and
what we're going to show in the upcoming
part is that maximum entropy models
pretty much solve this problem.
The completely solve it when two pieces
of evidence are completely correlated.
And as we shall see, this is done by
weighting features by more complex
algorithm that ends up meaning that
the model expectations of features
match their observed
empirical expectations.
Now obviously, there are names
of places like Hong Kong or
Saudi Arabia that provide two
tokens that are very correlated,
but you might still be thinking that
this doesn't come up very much.
But the truth is that when you're
building feature rich classifiers,
defining features as we discussed before,
this happens a ton.
Let me just quickly give
you one more example.
So suppose we're doing
some medical documents,
and a word that we might have in
the document collection is Xanax.
And we'll have that as a word feature.
But we discussed how commonly you also
want to have substrate features for
prefixes and suffixes.
And so
that means we might have a feature for
the first four letters of the word Xana,
with a capital X.
The first three letters of a word Xan and
the first two letter and the first letter.
But the problem is it's quite likely
in our training data that the only
word that we ever see that's
start with capital Xan is Xanax.
It's very rare beginning of words and
therefore this feature will fire
only when the word is Xanax,
and this feature will fire
only when the word is Xanax.
And so these three features,
their occurrence will be completely
correlated with each other.
And so if we build a Naive Bayes
model with these three features,
we'll triple count what's
really one piece of evidence,
whereas the maximum entropy
model won't do that.
Okay, I hope that's given you
a sense of the problem and
motivated you to stick with
the math that comes up ahead
in explaining how maximum
entropy models work.